# Happy_Heart
A Python project to predict the chances of an individual suffering from a heart disease.
The heart disease (HD) has been considered as one of the complex and life deadliest human diseases in the world. In this disease, usually the heart is unable to push the required amount of blood to other parts of the body to fulfill the normal functionalities of the body, and due to this, ultimately the heart failure occurs. The rate of heart disease in the United States is very high. The symptoms of heart disease include shortness of breath, weakness of physical body, swollen feet, and fatigue with related signs, for example, elevated jugular venous pressure and peripheral edema caused by functional cardiac or non cardiac abnormalities. The investigation techniques in early stages used to identify heart disease were complicated, and its resulting complexity is one of the major reasons that affect the standard of life. The heart disease diagnosis and treatment are very complex, especially in the developing countries, due to the rare availability of diagnostic apparatus and shortage of physicians and others resources which affect proper prediction and treatment of heart patients. The accurate and proper diagnosis of the heart disease risk in patients is necessary for reducing their associated risks of severe heart issues and improving security of heart. The European Society of Cardiology (ESC) reported that 26 million adults worldwide were diagnosed with heart disease and 3.6 million were diagnosed every year. Approximately 50% of heart disease people suffering from HD die within initial 1-2 years, and concerned costs of heart disease management are approximately 3% of health-care financial budget.
The invasive-based techniques to the diagnosing of heart disease are based on the analysis of the patient’s medical history, physical examination report, and analysis of concerned symptoms by medical experts. All these techniques mostly cause imprecise diagnosis and often delay in the diagnosis results due to human errors. Moreover, it is more expensive and computationally complex and takes time in assessments.
A major challenge facing healthcare organizations (hospitals, medical centers) is the provision of quality treatments that are effective. Poor clinical decisions can lead to disastrous consequences which are therefore unacceptable. Hospitals must also minimize the cost of clinical tests. They can achieve these results by employing support systems. Most hospitals today employ some sort of hospital information systems to manage their healthcare or patient data. They can answer simple queries like? “How many surgeries had resulted in " or  “What is the average age of patients who have heart disease hospital stays longer than 10 days?”etc. However, they cannot answer complex queries like  “Identify the important preoperative predictors that Increase the length of hospital stay”,  “Given patient records on allergies, and “Given patient records, predict the probability of patients getting a heart disease.” 
 
Unfortunately, these data are rarely used to support clinical decision making. There is a wealth of hidden information in these data that is largely untapped. This raises an important question: How can we turn data into useful information that can enable healthcare practitioners to make intelligent clinical decisions? And also how to provide ease and quality of services to patients. This gave motivation to our project to build a system to ease the hospital procedure. This project can allow any patient to check there chances of suffering from a heart disease by simply sitting at their homes for free.

# Requirements
Download the Disease.csv and Heart Disease.ipynb file to run the code.
